User interface acceptance criteria: Submit order (with prerequisites) (#1181)
vegaprotocol/specs: user-interface/0001-WALL-wallet.md

# Wallet
A Vega wallet is required to prepare and submit transaction on Vega  (place, cancel, orders etc). See the [wallet docs](https://docs.vega.xyz/docs/mainnet/concepts/vega-wallet) for more on how "crypto" wallets work. 

> A wallet can contain many public/private key pairs, The public part of each key pair is known the [Party](https://github.com/vegaprotocol/specs-internal/blob/master/protocol/0017-PART-party.md) sometimes just referred to as a key. The primary job of a wallet app is to [authenticate a users actions](https://github.com/vegaprotocol/specs-internal/blob/master/protocol/0022-AUTH-auth.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A wallet can contain many public/private key pairs. The public part of each key pair is known the [Party](https://github.com/vegaprotocol/specs-internal/blob/master/protocol/0017-PART-party.md) sometimes just referred to as a key or public key. The primary job of a wallet app is to [authenticate a user's actions](https://github.com/vegaprotocol/specs-internal/blob/master/protocol/0022-AUTH-auth.md).
```

## Get wallet
When on the wallet page of Vega.xyz, I...

- **must** see links to the latest version of the desktop and command line wallets (inc github repos) <a name="0001-WALL-001" href="#0001-WALL-001">0001-WALL-001</a>

> - **must** see a primary download button is configured for the latest version and the operating system I am using <a name="0001-WALL-002" href="#0001-WALL-002">0001-WALL-002</a>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **must** see a primary download button is configured for the latest version and the operating system I am using <a name="0001-WALL-002" href="#0001-WALL-002">0001-WALL-002</a>
- **must** be able to use the default wallet version linked/downloadable from this page with the version of Vega currently running on mainnet <a name="0001-WALL-002" href="#0001-WALL-XXX">0001-WALL-XXX</a>
```

Author: Remove this requirement?
Is it too snoopy? Too prone to error? Do you think the current design should change?

Author: re-read. I've understood now.

> ...so I can download and run the wallet app on my machine

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
...so I can download and run the wallet app on my machine and use it to interact with the Vega mainnet
```

## Set up wallet / Restore wallet
When opening the wallet for the first time, I...

- **must** be prompted to opt into (or stay out of) analytics <a name="0001-WALL-003" href="#0001-WALL-003">0001-WALL-003</a>
- **must** be able to restore a wallet from a seed phrase <a name="0001-WALL-004" href="#0001-WALL-004">0001-WALL-004</a>
- **must** be able to create a new wallet <a name="0001-WALL-005" href="#0001-WALL-005">0001-WALL-005</a>

>   - **must** shown back up phrase <a name="0001-WALL-006" href="#0001-WALL-006">0001-WALL-006</a>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - **must** be shown the back up phrase <a name="0001-WALL-006" href="#0001-WALL-006">0001-WALL-006</a>
```

>   - **must** shown version number <a name="0001-WALL-007" href="#0001-WALL-007">0001-WALL-007</a>

Reviewer 2: Version number of what? The wallet? The wallet file format? The compatible Vega core release(s)? The current Vega core version running on [networks]?

Author: @barnabee Version number of the algorithm that converts seed phrase to keys.
We are now on Version 2.
as I understanding the same back up phrase may generate different keys between versions.

Author: ```suggestion
  - **must** shown version number of the algorithm used to derive key pairs from the back up phrase <a name="0001-WALL-007" href="#0001-WALL-007">0001-WALL-007</a>
```

  - **must** see the first key without having to "add key" <a name="0001-WALL-008" href="#0001-WALL-008">0001-WALL-008</a>

...so I can sign transactions

## Configure network
When using the wallet on a network, I...

- **must** have Mainnet and Fairground (testnet) pre-configured (with Mainnet being the default network) <a name="0001-WALL-009" href="#0001-WALL-009">0001-WALL-009</a>
- **must** be able to create a new network configuration  <a name="0001-WALL-010" href="#0001-WALL-010">0001-WALL-010</a>
- **must** be able refine the configuration for existing networks (including the ones that come pre-configured) <a name="0001-WALL-011" href="#0001-WALL-011">0001-WALL-011</a>

> - TODO: **should** be prompted about changes to the validator set on a given network <!--<a name="0001-WALL-012" href="#0001-WALL-012">0001-WALL-012</a>-->

Reviewer 2: What would this prompt be for? What would be the actions that could be taken from the prompt? What would happen if there are multiple validator set changes?

Author: I think I'm going to remove this one for now as we've not implemented anything like it and need to have more discussion about how it works before writing the AC
```suggestion
```

- **must** be able to remove networks <a name="0001-WALL-013" href="#0001-WALL-013">0001-WALL-013</a>

...so I can broadcast transactions to, and read information from a vega network in my wallet app

## Update wallet

> When using an older version of a Vega wallet, I...

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When using an older version of a Vega wallet than the current official release, I...
```

> - **must** be prompted to download a newer version, and given a link to get latest on github <a name="0001-WALL-014" href="#0001-WALL-014">0001-WALL-014</a>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **must** be prompted to download a newer major release version, and given a link to get latest on github <a name="0001-WALL-014" href="#0001-WALL-014">0001-WALL-014</a>
```

> - **must** be warned if the version I am using is not compatible with the version of Vega on the selected network, and I am given a link to get latest on github <a name="0001-WALL-015" href="#0001-WALL-015">0001-WALL-015</a>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **must** be warned if the version I am using is not compatible with the version of Vega on the selected network, and I am given a link to get latest compatible version on github <a name="0001-WALL-015" href="#0001-WALL-015">0001-WALL-015</a>
```

Reviewer 2: Must we also present information or a link to docs on how to run multiple wallet versions simultaneously [if necessary given the confgured networks]?

... so the version of the wallet app I am using works with the network I am using

## Log in to a wallet
When using a given wallet, I...

> - **must** enter wallet name + passphrase only once per "session" <a name="0001-WALL-016" href="#0001-WALL-016">0001-WALL-016</a>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **must** select a wallet and enter the pasphrase only once per "session" <a name="0001-WALL-016" href="#0001-WALL-016">0001-WALL-016</a>
```

Is this more appropriate for the new functionality that is coming?

Author: This is true now as well as in with the future iterations

... so that other users of my machine can not use my wallet, and I am not asked to re-enter frequently

## Connecting to Dapps
When a dapp requests use of a wallet, I...

- **must** be prompted to either select a wallet or dismiss the prompt  <a name="0001-WALL-017" href="#0001-WALL-017">0001-WALL-017</a>

> - `TODO` am required to select what keys of a wallet to grant access too <!--<a name="0001-WALL-018" href="#0001-WALL-018">0001-WALL-018</a>-->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `TODO` am required to select what keys of a wallet to grant access to <!--<a name="0001-WALL-018" href="#0001-WALL-018">0001-WALL-018</a>-->
```

  - `TODO:` **must** be able to select whole wallet (so that new keys are automatically shared)  <!--<a name="0001-WALL-019" href="#0001-WALL-019">0001-WALL-019</a>-->

>   - `TODO:` **must** select specific [keys](7001-DATA-data_display.md#public-keys) <!-- <a name="0001-WALL-020" href="#0001-WALL-020">0001-WALL-020</a> -->

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - `TODO:` **must** be able to select specific [keys](7001-DATA-data_display.md#public-keys)<!-- <a name="0001-WALL-020" href="#0001-WALL-020">0001-WALL-020</a> -->
```

>   - `TODO` tainted keys **must** be shown as tainted <a name="0001-WALL-021" href="#0001-WALL-021">0001-WALL-021</a>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - `TODO` tainted keys **must** be shown as tainted <a name="0001-WALL-021" href="#0001-WALL-021">0001-WALL-021</a>
    - `TODO` tainted keys **must** not be selectable <a name="0001-WALL-XXX" href="#0001-WALL-XXX">0001-WALL-XXX</a>**
```

Author: This doesn't look like it changes anything?

Author: realised what you've suggested:
resolved in: https://github.com/vegaprotocol/specs/pull/1181/commits/497e70641781b5bec3ebc19f6a7b3d064639ad5a

> - **must** enter wallet passphrase before wallet details are shared <a name="0001-WALL-022" href="#0001-WALL-022">0001-WALL-022</a>

Reviewer 2: Is this required if the wallet is unlocked already? As an extra security measure I guess?

Author: I guess it could be a simple button rather than re-enter password if you have already entered it in session.

Author: ```suggestion
- **must** enter wallet passphrase before wallet details are shared (assuming a password has not recently been entered)<a name="0001-WALL-022" href="#0001-WALL-022">0001-WALL-022</a>
```

> - **must** be able to retrospectively revoke Dapp's access to Wallet/keys <a name="0001-WALL-023" href="#0001-WALL-023">0001-WALL-023</a>

Reviewer 2: Consider splitting into two:

1. Ability to revoke dapp's connection to that wallet
2. Ability to revoke access to specific keys

What about ability to grant access to additional keys? Or switch from granting whole wallet (inc. new keys) and granting only specific keys?

Author: resolved in: https://github.com/vegaprotocol/specs/pull/1181/commits/d270c024d945233c817a579aee834e2557cadf2a

... so that I can control what public keys are shared with a dapp and what dapps can prompt me to sign transactions 

## Approving transactions
When a dapp sends a transaction to the wallet for signing and broadcast, I...

> - **must** be prompted to approve, reject or ignore the transaction (if auto approve is not on) <a name="0001-WALL-024" href="#0001-WALL-024">0001-WALL-024</a>

Reviewer 2: What is the difference between reject and ignore?

Author: Ignore is just telling the UI that I don't want to do this thing yet, get out of my way, I'm trying to do something else. 
Can add comment to clarify.

- **must** see the details of the transaction. See [details of transaction](#transaction-detail). <a name="0001-WALL-025" href="#0001-WALL-025">0001-WALL-025</a>

> - **must** see any ignored/dismissed (not rejected or approved) in a transactions area (e.g. history). See [Transactions](#transactions).

Reviewer 2: Why would I not be able to see all transactions in the history?

Author: I'll re word to make it clear that you should be able too.

Author: ```suggestion
- **must** see any ignored/dismissed in a transactions area along with pending, approved and rejected transactions (e.g. history). See [Transactions](#transactions).
```

... so I can verify that the transaction being sent is the one I want

## View keys balances + positions/accounts
When looking for a specific balance or asset on a given wallet and network, I...

> - **must** see key total balances of an asset for each key <a name="0001-WALL-027" href="#0001-WALL-027">0001-WALL-027</a>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **must** see total balances of an asset for each key <a name="0001-WALL-027" href="#0001-WALL-027">0001-WALL-027</a>
```

> - **must** see a breakdown of all accounts for an asset on a key <a name="0001-WALL-028" href="#0001-WALL-028">0001-WALL-028</a>

Reviewer 2: I'd probably say this is a should. Also relevant is how often it updates. A recent total balance for an asset is a lot less overhead than a streaming margin balance.

I don't think wallet should mantain a GQL subscription in the background while it is open. If it does this **must** be able to be disabled IMO.

Ideally wallet would be able to be configured to not connect out _at all_ by default unless I send a transaction so that a third party data node operator cnanot learn what keys I control.

Note that the network by default has **no way to tell two keys are connected in the same wallet**, and we have the specific key selection for dapps for that reason, so we definitely do not want to leak this information from the wallet.

Reviewer 2: Any fecthing data for keys from data node should be explicitly opt-in.

Author: I'll bring this up with the team and change from must to should. I agree

Author: @barnabee the WIP to show assets on a key in the wallet app will only request assets for the selected key.
Perhaps this is sufficient to reduce leaking of info until we've built some configuration that allows you to control what keys request balances?

Another note: the API doesn't give a total balance, only each of the accounts for a party. So the UI will need to sum them up on the client. We could make it so that it doesn't stream these but fetches at a particular rate.

Author: changed to should in https://github.com/vegaprotocol/specs/pull/1181/commits/a86487963de0dd2b33df926308a1987e0bc661f1

Author: https://github.com/vegaprotocol/specs/commit/9ab47aeab2b167ee147e7de4c27a4150fa7f3f54 with 
> - **must** be able to control whether the wallet app queries for data (e.g. asset balances) on each key (to prevent info leaking about what keys belong to a wallet) <a name="0001-WALL-078" href="#0001-WALL-078">0001-WALL-078</a>

Should resolve this

Reviewer 2: I think the minimum in the GUI app is a warning about fetching if no control, so if you wish you could update this to must warn and should allow control. The CLI app must not do any outbound connections like this so can be the option for the privacy conscious.

In any case the above resolves it so I am marking as resolved also.

> - **should** see key a summary of balances when switching keys (to help me find the key I am looking for) <a name="0001-WALL-029" href="#0001-WALL-029">0001-WALL-029</a>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **should** see a summary of balances when switching keys (to help me find the key I am looking for) <a name="0001-WALL-029" href="#0001-WALL-029">0001-WALL-029</a>
```

> - **should** be able to search by market name, and see all keys with a margin or liquidity account in that market <a name="0001-WALL-030" href="#0001-WALL-030">0001-WALL-030</a>

Reviewer 2: This seems like perhaps more of a Console/front end feature? Or at least a nice to have in wallet…

Author: ```suggestion
- **would like to** be able to search by market name, and see all keys with a margin or liquidity account in that market <a name="0001-WALL-030" href="#0001-WALL-030">0001-WALL-030</a>
```

> - **should** be able to search by market name, and see all keys with a margin or liquidity account in that market <a name="0001-WALL-030" href="#0001-WALL-030">0001-WALL-030</a>

Reviewer: market name - do they have to be unique? I'm not sure that markets with the same are rejected. If not then I guess it should show all markets with that name

Author: ```suggestion
- **should** be able to search by market name/code, and see all keys with a margin or liquidity account in matching markets <a name="0001-WALL-030" href="#0001-WALL-030">0001-WALL-030</a>
```

Author: resolved in: https://github.com/vegaprotocol/specs/pull/1181/commits/4665c7e1fe86427ab576ea98028c876b09d53b38

- **should** be able to search by asset name or code, and see all keys with balance of matching assets <a name="0001-WALL-031" href="#0001-WALL-031">0001-WALL-031</a>
- **should** be able to search for arbitrary metadata added by user to keys <a name="0001-WALL-032" href="#0001-WALL-032">0001-WALL-032</a>
- **must** be able to see a total of all asset for all keys in a given wallet <a name="0001-WALL-033" href="#0001-WALL-033">0001-WALL-033</a>
 
... so that I can find the keys that I am looking for, see how much I have to consolidate (via transfers) or withdraw funds

## Transactions
When thinking about a recent or specific transaction, I ...

> - **must** see a history of transactions for a wallet and network <a name="0001-WALL-034" href="#0001-WALL-034">0001-WALL-034</a>

Reviewer 2: Distinguish between history of requests made to the wallet and transactions looked up from a data node (which as above should not be done without opt-in).

Author: to clarify: @barnabee you mean there should be a record in desktop wallet with a record for each query to a data node?

Reviewer 2: I mean there are two ways to make a history of transactions:

1. Wallet app stores a list of stuff you did with that wallet instance, it just shows you that
2. Wallet app looks up via data node or something all txns for the pubkey(s) in the wallet

Would be good to be clear about which this is. I assume it's (1) but it's an important difference.

Author: I've made 1 a must.
and added another could. for being able see transactions the wallet has read from the network (e.g. if the wallet was restored from a back up.
https://github.com/vegaprotocol/specs/pull/1181/commits/2560b606af523cfacdfaf9cc7ab7f58caa34fd9b

- **must** see pending transactions (Transactions I have not yet approved/rejected) <a name="0001-WALL-035" href="#0001-WALL-035">0001-WALL-035</a>
- **must** see transactions that have recently been broadcast but not yet seen on the chain <a name="0001-WALL-036" href="#0001-WALL-036">0001-WALL-036</a>
- **must** see transactions that were rejected by the wallet user (me) <a name="0001-WALL-037" href="#0001-WALL-037">0001-WALL-037</a>
- (for tainted keys) **should** see attempts to use a tainted key (these did not prompt the user, but allows a user to change permissions) <a name="0001-WALL-038" href="#0001-WALL-038">0001-WALL-038</a>

... so that I can ensure my wallet is being used appropriately and find transaction I might have missed

## Transaction detail
when looking at a specific transaction...

- **must** see the content of the transaction decoded <a name="0001-WALL-039" href="#0001-WALL-039">0001-WALL-039</a>
- **must** see the time request to sign and send was made <a name="0001-WALL-040" href="#0001-WALL-040">0001-WALL-040</a>

> - **should** see the dapp that made the request <!-- <a name="0001-WALL-041" href="#0001-WALL-041">0001-WALL-041</a> -->

Reviewer 2: We need to:
(a) pass information such as referer that would allow verfiying the dapp in question; and
(b) be honest with a user about how much confidence they can infer about this (perhaps in a tooltip or help text).

Author: ```suggestion
- **should** see the referer that made the request (with note that this is not verified) <!-- <a name="0001-WALL-041" href="#0001-WALL-041">0001-WALL-041</a> -->
```

- **must** see what wallet / key is being used <a name="0001-WALL-042" href="#0001-WALL-042">0001-WALL-042</a>

> - **should** be able to select auto approve for this app (aka don't ask me again) <!-- <a name="0001-WALL-043" href="#0001-WALL-043">0001-WALL-043</a> -->

Reviewer 2: This should definitely have a warning.  And perhaps the option of "auto approve for next XX days/hours/minutes/seconds" by default rather than forever.

Author: resolved in: https://github.com/vegaprotocol/specs/pull/1181/commits/3bc208a711377948f6bad6477d9672cbf9863725

- **must** see [status of broadcasted transactions](0003-WTXN-submit_vega_transaction.md#track-transaction-on-network). <a name="0001-WALL-045" href="#0001-WALL-045">0001-WALL-045</a>
- **must** be able to follow a link to block explorer for broadcasted transactions <a name="0001-WALL-046" href="#0001-WALL-046">0001-WALL-046</a>
- **should** see what node it was broadcast to <a name="0001-WALL-047" href="#0001-WALL-047">0001-WALL-047</a>
- **could** see what validator mined the block the transaction was included in <a name="0001-WALL-048" href="#0001-WALL-048">0001-WALL-048</a>
- **must** see at what block and time it was confirmed <a name="0001-WALL-049" href="#0001-WALL-049">0001-WALL-049</a>
- **must** see if there was a reported error/issue, and the details of the issue <a name="0001-WALL-050" href="#0001-WALL-050">0001-WALL-050</a>
- **must** see if the transaction was rejected, and why <a name="0001-WALL-051" href="#0001-WALL-051">0001-WALL-051</a>

.. so I can find all the information about what has happened with mined and un-mined transactions

## Key management

> When using vega, I...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using a Vega wallet, I...
```

- **must** be able to create new keys (derived from the source of wallet) <a name="0001-WALL-052" href="#0001-WALL-052">0001-WALL-052</a>
- **should** be prompted to give keys an alias (user can ignore) <a name="0001-WALL-053" href="#0001-WALL-053">0001-WALL-053</a>
- **must** see full public key or be able to copy it to clipboard <a name="0001-WALL-054" href="#0001-WALL-054">0001-WALL-054</a>
- **must** be able to change key name/alias <a name="0001-WALL-055" href="#0001-WALL-055">0001-WALL-055</a>
- **must** be able to amend other arbitrary key meta data <a name="0001-WALL-056" href="#0001-WALL-056">0001-WALL-056</a>

> ... so I can manage risk (e.g. isolate margin), mitigate the damage of a key being comprised, or use multiple trading strategies 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
... so I can manage risk (e.g. isolate margin), mitigate the damage of a key being compromised, or use multiple trading strategies 
```

## Taint keys
When protecting myself from use of keys that may be compromised, I..

- **must** select a key I wish to taint <a name="0001-WALL-057" href="#0001-WALL-057">0001-WALL-057</a>
- **must** be prompted to enter wallet password to taint key <a name="0001-WALL-058" href="#0001-WALL-058">0001-WALL-058</a>
- (Dapps that request use of tainted keys **must** not prompt a prompt user to sign transaction) <a name="0001-WALL-059" href="#0001-WALL-059">0001-WALL-059</a>
- **must** see tainted keys flagged as tainted <a name="0001-WALL-060" href="#0001-WALL-060">0001-WALL-060</a>

... so that tainted keys must not be used

When I have accidentally tainted a key I...

> - **must** select a key to un-taint by entering wallet password <a name="0001-WALL-061" href="#0001-WALL-061">0001-WALL-061</a>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **must** select a key to un-taint and be required to enter wallet password <a name="0001-WALL-061" href="#0001-WALL-061">0001-WALL-061</a>
```

...so that I must use the key again

## Isolate keys
See [docs on key isolation](https://docs.vega.xyz/docs/mainnet/tools/vega-wallet/cli-wallet/latest/guides/isolate-keys)
When I want to create an extra level of security for a given key, I...

- `TODO` must select a key that I want to isolate
- `TODO` am prompted for a password before isolation
- `TODO` am instructed as to where the wallet file has been created

... so I must store some keys in an extra secure way

## Manually sign a message
When wishing to use my wallet to sign arbitrary messages, I...

- **must** enter content to be signed with key  <a name="0001-WALL-062" href="#0001-WALL-062">0001-WALL-062</a>
- **must** see an option to base64 encode content before signing <a name="0001-WALL-063" href="#0001-WALL-063">0001-WALL-063</a>

> - **must** see option to broadcast that to a selected network <a name="0001-WALL-064" href="#0001-WALL-064">0001-WALL-064</a>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   - **should** only have the option to broadcast valid Vega transactions to a selected network <a name="0001-WALL-XXX" href="#0001-WALL-XXX">0001-WALL-XXX</a>
```

- **must** be able to submit/sign the content and am given a hash of the signed content as well as the message (now encoded) <a name="0001-WALL-065" href="#0001-WALL-065">0001-WALL-065</a>
  - **must** be able to [track progress](0003-WTXN-submit_vega_transaction.md#track-transaction-on-network) of broadcast transaction <a name="0001-WALL-071" href="#0001-WALL-071">0001-WALL-071</a>

.. so I can control of the message being signed, and can use the message elsewhere (for example to prove I own a wallet)

## Wallet management
When seeking to reduce risk of compromise I...

- **must** be able to create multiple wallets <a name="0001-WALL-066" href="#0001-WALL-066">0001-WALL-066</a>
- **must** be able to switch between wallets <a name="0001-WALL-067" href="#0001-WALL-067">0001-WALL-067</a>
- **must** be able to delete a wallet <a name="0001-WALL-068" href="#0001-WALL-068">0001-WALL-068</a>
- **must** be able to change wallet name <a name="0001-WALL-069" href="#0001-WALL-069">0001-WALL-069</a>
- **must** be able to change wallet passphrase <a name="0001-WALL-070" href="#0001-WALL-070">0001-WALL-070</a>

> - `TODO` must get the recovery phrase for a wallet (at any time not just creation)

Reviewer: I want this but have been told many times  this is a security risk - but it would be nice to have a way to make people interact with their recovery phrase or double-agree that they've saved it somewhere safe/secure.

Author: Going to remove this now and have left a comment on 
https://github.com/vegaprotocol/vegawallet-desktop/issues/199
and https://github.com/vegaprotocol/vegawallet-desktop/issues/65 suggesting they add Acs here if/when implemented.
 ```suggestion
```

# Wallet
A Vega wallet is required to prepare and submit transaction on Vega  (place, cancel, orders etc). See the [wallet docs](https://docs.vega.xyz/docs/mainnet/concepts/vega-wallet) for more on how "crypto" wallets work. 

A wallet can contain many public/private key pairs. The public part of each key pair is known the [Party](https://github.com/vegaprotocol/specs-internal/blob/master/protocol/0017-PART-party.md) sometimes just referred to as a key or public key. The primary job of a wallet app is to [authenticate a user's actions](https://github.com/vegaprotocol/specs-internal/blob/master/protocol/0022-AUTH-auth.md).

## Get wallet
When on the wallet page of Vega.xyz, I...

> - **must** see links to the latest version of the desktop and command line wallets (inc github repos) (<a name="0001-WALL-001" href="#0001-WALL-001">0001-WALL-001</a>)

Reviewer 3: Make wallet-agnostic if we add others (eg, browser plugin) - 'latest version of all released wallets'?

Author: ```suggestion
- **must** see links to the latest version of all the available wallets (e.g. desktop, command line and browser plugin) (inc github repos) (<a name="0001-WALL-001" href="#0001-WALL-001">0001-WALL-001</a>)
```

> - **must** see a primary download button is configured for the latest version and the operating system I am using (<a name="0001-WALL-002" href="#0001-WALL-002">0001-WALL-002</a>)

Reviewer 3: With ability to download for other OSes?

Author: ```suggestion
- **must** see a primary download button is configured for the latest version and the operating system I am using. with a link to download for other operating systems (<a name="0001-WALL-002" href="#0001-WALL-002">0001-WALL-002</a>)
```

Author: resolved in https://github.com/vegaprotocol/specs/pull/1181/commits/4dbbc0a2cf66c82f582206265ba4a90cadc132da

- **must** be able to use the default wallet version linked/downloadable from this page with the version of Vega currently running on mainnet (<a name="0001-WALL-076" href="#0001-WALL-076">0001-WALL-076</a>)

...so I can download and run the wallet app on my machine and use it to interact with the Vega mainnet

## Set up wallet / Restore wallet
When opening the wallet for the first time, I...

- **must** be prompted to opt into (or stay out of) analytics (<a name="0001-WALL-003" href="#0001-WALL-003">0001-WALL-003</a>)
- **must** be able to restore a wallet from a seed phrase (<a name="0001-WALL-004" href="#0001-WALL-004">0001-WALL-004</a>)
- **must** be able to create a new wallet (<a name="0001-WALL-005" href="#0001-WALL-005">0001-WALL-005</a>)
  - **must** be shown the back up phrase (<a name="0001-WALL-006" href="#0001-WALL-006">0001-WALL-006</a>)
  - **must** shown version number of the algorithm used to derive key pairs from the back up phrase (<a name="0001-WALL-007" href="#0001-WALL-007">0001-WALL-007</a>)

>   - **must** see the first key without having to "add key" (<a name="0001-WALL-008" href="#0001-WALL-008">0001-WALL-008</a>)

Reviewer 3: Not sure what this means?

Author: ```suggestion
  - **must** see the first key without having to "add key". (i.e. The wallet auto generates the first key from the seed phrase) (<a name="0001-WALL-008" href="#0001-WALL-008">0001-WALL-008</a>)
```

# Wallet
A Vega wallet is required to prepare and submit transaction on Vega  (place, cancel, orders etc). See the [wallet docs](https://docs.vega.xyz/docs/mainnet/concepts/vega-wallet) for more on how "crypto" wallets work. 

A wallet can contain many public/private key pairs. The public part of each key pair is known the [Party](../protocol/0017-PART-party.md) sometimes just referred to as a key or public key. 

> The primary job(s) of a wallet app is to [sign/encrypt transaction](../protocol/0022-AUTH-auth.md) (so the network can be sure they were sent a given party) and to broadcast these transactions to a node on the network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The primary job(s) of a wallet app is to [sign/encrypt transaction](../protocol/0022-AUTH-auth.md) (so the network can be sure they were sent by a given party) and to broadcast these transactions to a node on the network.
```

- **must** see a primary download button is configured for the latest version and the operating system I am using. With a link to download for other operating systems too (<a name="0001-WALL-002" href="#0001-WALL-002">0001-WALL-002</a>)
- **must** be able to use the default wallet version linked/downloadable from this page with the version of Vega currently running on mainnet (<a name="0001-WALL-076" href="#0001-WALL-076">0001-WALL-076</a>)

...so I can download and run the wallet app on my machine and use it to interact with the Vega mainnet

## Set up wallet / Restore wallet
When opening the wallet for the first time, I...

- **must** be prompted to opt into (or stay out of) analytics (<a name="0001-WALL-003" href="#0001-WALL-003">0001-WALL-003</a>)
- **must** be able to restore a wallet from a seed phrase (<a name="0001-WALL-004" href="#0001-WALL-004">0001-WALL-004</a>)
- **must** be able to create a new wallet (<a name="0001-WALL-005" href="#0001-WALL-005">0001-WALL-005</a>)
  - **must** be shown the back up phrase (<a name="0001-WALL-006" href="#0001-WALL-006">0001-WALL-006</a>)

>   - **must** shown version number of the algorithm used to derive key pairs from the back up phrase (<a name="0001-WALL-007" href="#0001-WALL-007">0001-WALL-007</a>)

Reviewer 4: Is this a must? Pretty sure the algo version is likely to not change. Also almost all users might not care about this and it has no bearing on their user journey?

Author: I assumed it is a must because it exists. If they used V1 to generate keys from seed, then restored a wallet with that same seed using V2 they will end up with new keys.
@ValentinTrinque @mattrussell36 I'm happy to say it is not required if you can tell me that there is no-one using V1?

Reviewer 5: It is required, and we will have to support this forever sadly.

- **must** be able to retrospectively revoke Dapp's access particular keys in a wallet (<a name="0001-WALL-072" href="#0001-WALL-072">0001-WALL-072</a>)

... so that I can control what public keys are shared with a dapp and what dapps can prompt me to sign transactions 

## Approving transactions
When a dapp sends a transaction to the wallet for signing and broadcast, I...

- **must** be prompted to approve, reject or ignore the transaction (if auto approve is not on) (<a name="0001-WALL-024" href="#0001-WALL-024">0001-WALL-024</a>)
- **must** see the details of the transaction. See [details of transaction](#transaction-detail). (<a name="0001-WALL-025" href="#0001-WALL-025">0001-WALL-025</a>)
- **must** see any ignored/dismissed in a transactions area along with pending, approved and rejected transactions (e.g. history). See [Transactions](#transactions).

... so I can verify that the transaction being sent is the one I want

## View keys balances + positions/accounts
When looking for a specific balance or asset on a given wallet and network, I...

> - **must** see total balances of an asset for each key (<a name="0001-WALL-027" href="#0001-WALL-027">0001-WALL-027</a>)

Reviewer 4: Worth verifying if this is a must. I know some would prefer to not have any fetching accounts at all. Or at the very least the initial startup dialog should warn users or prompt them to opt in to having their public keys used to fetch data

Author: I added 0001-WALL-078 after the discussion but will re-phrase this to mention the ability to opt in/out of queries.
```suggestion
- **must** see total balances of an asset for each key (subject to that key being included in data queries (see 078)) (<a name="0001-WALL-027" href="#0001-WALL-027">0001-WALL-027</a>)
```

- **should** see a breakdown of all accounts for an asset on a key (<a name="0001-WALL-028" href="#0001-WALL-028">0001-WALL-028</a>)
- **should** see a summary of balances when switching keys (to help me find the key I am looking for) (<a name="0001-WALL-029" href="#0001-WALL-029">0001-WALL-029</a>)
- **would like to** be able to search by market name/code, and see all keys with a margin or liquidity account in matching markets (<a name="0001-WALL-030" href="#0001-WALL-030">0001-WALL-030</a>)
- **should** be able to search by asset name or code, and see all keys with balance of matching assets (<a name="0001-WALL-031" href="#0001-WALL-031">0001-WALL-031</a>)
- **should** be able to search for arbitrary metadata added by user to keys (<a name="0001-WALL-032" href="#0001-WALL-032">0001-WALL-032</a>)
- **must** be able to see a total of all asset for all keys in a given wallet (<a name="0001-WALL-033" href="#0001-WALL-033">0001-WALL-033</a>)
 
... so that I can find the keys that I am looking for, see how much I have to consolidate (via transfers) or withdraw funds

## Transactions
When thinking about a recent or specific transaction, I ...

> - **must** see a history of transactions the wallet app has signed read from the local app (<a name="0001-WALL-034" href="#0001-WALL-034">0001-WALL-034</a>)

Reviewer: signed and read?

Author: Clarified in and earlier clarifications: https://github.com/vegaprotocol/specs/pull/1181/commits/35751003662f9e9193edf9a3dd2e8e381bd8cf41

> - **must** see a history of transactions the wallet app has signed read from the local app (<a name="0001-WALL-034" href="#0001-WALL-034">0001-WALL-034</a>)

Reviewer 4: Might be worth clarifying that this is only for the current session (until app is quit)

Author: @barnabee would you expect all transactions in the current "Session" or from a store that lasts longer?

Reviewer 2: I'm ambivalent. 

Doing this for the current session is obviously the simplest option, but if the data is **local** and encrypted with the wallet password (or synced with other places I have a wallet in an end-to-end encrypted way) then there's no reason it couldn't be a longer history. 

If it is longer it _should_ be possible to delete individual items and to clear the whole history, and I _would like_ to be able to set a maximum age / expiry time for history items after which they are deleted.

Author: okay I'm going to make this one Session specific.
I'm going to add the requirements barney mentioned now (so not lost to this thread), but comment them out until we agree they are in scope.

Author: resolved in: https://github.com/vegaprotocol/specs/pull/1181/commits/94917202298a2d9393ec04659dfd55de8b4304c1

Author: have also raise a ticket for the wallet backlog to implement long term storage when appropriate https://github.com/vegaprotocol/vega/issues/6142

- **could** see a history of transactions the selected key has broadcast to a network (e.g. another wallet with the same keys), or from before a key restore (<a name="0001-WALL-077" href="#0001-WALL-077">0001-WALL-077</a>)
- **must** see pending transactions (Transactions I have not yet approved/rejected) (<a name="0001-WALL-035" href="#0001-WALL-035">0001-WALL-035</a>)
- **must** see transactions that have recently been broadcast but not yet seen on the chain (<a name="0001-WALL-036" href="#0001-WALL-036">0001-WALL-036</a>)
- **must** see transactions that were rejected by the wallet user (me) (<a name="0001-WALL-037" href="#0001-WALL-037">0001-WALL-037</a>)
- (for tainted keys) **should** see attempts to use a tainted key (these did not prompt the user, but allows a user to change permissions) (<a name="0001-WALL-038" href="#0001-WALL-038">0001-WALL-038</a>)

> ... so that I can ensure my wallet is being used appropriately and find transaction I might have missed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
... so that I can ensure my wallet is being used appropriately and find transactions I might have missed
```

## Transaction detail
when looking at a specific transaction...

- **must** see the content of the transaction decoded (<a name="0001-WALL-039" href="#0001-WALL-039">0001-WALL-039</a>)
- **must** see the time request to sign and send was made (<a name="0001-WALL-040" href="#0001-WALL-040">0001-WALL-040</a>)
- **should** see the referrer that made the request (with note that this is not verified) <!-- (<a name="0001-WALL-041" href="#0001-WALL-041">0001-WALL-041</a>) -->
- **must** see what wallet / key is being used (<a name="0001-WALL-042" href="#0001-WALL-042">0001-WALL-042</a>)
- **should** be able to select auto approve for this app (aka don't ask me again) <!-- (<a name="0001-WALL-043" href="#0001-WALL-043">0001-WALL-043</a>) -->

>   - **should** be able to select to auto approve for a amount of time that I choose <!-- (<a name="0001-WALL-074" href="#0001-WALL-074">0001-WALL-074</a>) -->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - **should** be able to select to auto approve for an amount of time that I choose <!-- (<a name="0001-WALL-074" href="#0001-WALL-074">0001-WALL-074</a>) -->
```

- **should** be prompted to give keys an alias (user can ignore) (<a name="0001-WALL-053" href="#0001-WALL-053">0001-WALL-053</a>)
- **must** see full public key or be able to copy it to clipboard (<a name="0001-WALL-054" href="#0001-WALL-054">0001-WALL-054</a>)
- **must** be able to change key name/alias (<a name="0001-WALL-055" href="#0001-WALL-055">0001-WALL-055</a>)
- **must** be able to amend other arbitrary key meta data (<a name="0001-WALL-056" href="#0001-WALL-056">0001-WALL-056</a>)
- **must** be able to control whether the wallet app queries for data (e.g. asset balances) on each key (to prevent info leaking about what keys belong to a wallet) (<a name="0001-WALL-078" href="#0001-WALL-078">0001-WALL-078</a>)

... so I can manage risk (e.g. isolate margin), mitigate the damage of a key being compromised, or use multiple trading strategies 

## Taint keys
When protecting myself from use of keys that may be compromised, I..

- **must** select a key I wish to taint (<a name="0001-WALL-057" href="#0001-WALL-057">0001-WALL-057</a>)
- **must** be prompted to enter wallet password to taint key (<a name="0001-WALL-058" href="#0001-WALL-058">0001-WALL-058</a>)

> - (Dapps that request use of tainted keys **must** not prompt a prompt user to sign transaction) (<a name="0001-WALL-059" href="#0001-WALL-059">0001-WALL-059</a>)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- (Dapps that request use of tainted keys **must** not prompt a user to sign transaction) (<a name="0001-WALL-059" href="#0001-WALL-059">0001-WALL-059</a>)
```

> When on the wallet page of Vega.xyz, I...

Reviewer: GH won't let me comment further up, but my comment is about line 4. 

>  The primary job of a wallet app is to authenticate a user's actions.

I'd say the primary job(s) are to sign and send transactions. I don't think 'authentication' really covers all of that.

(Also the spec link can just be /specs/ now)

Author: https://github.com/vegaprotocol/specs/pull/1181/commits/d7daf9ddf2a312de31eb148d467c28d2f14d3ad7
and correction in 
https://github.com/vegaprotocol/specs/pull/1181/commits/0127c319adc61e2afc4c21e5b6ff955e85f2b0ca

```
A wallet can contain many public/private key pairs. The public part of each key pair is known the [Party](../protocol/0017-PART-party.md) sometimes just referred to as a key or public key. 

The primary job(s) of a wallet app is to [sign/encrypt transaction](../protocol/0022-AUTH-auth.md) (so the network can be sure they were sent a given party) and to broadcast these transactions to a node on the network.
```
